README.md, before:

# NexusOS

<div align="center">

[![License: AGPL v3](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-AGPL%20v3-blue.svg)](LICENSE)
[![Python 3.12+](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.12+-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
[![Built with Chromium](https://img.shields.io/badge/Built%20with-Chromium-4285F4?logo=googlechrome&logoColor=white)](https://www.chromium.org/)

**A privacy-focused Chromium-based browser with native AI agent integration**

</div>

---

## 🎯 Overview

NexusOS is an open-source Chromium fork designed for developers and power users who want:
- **Local-first AI agents** - Run automation on your machine, not in the cloud
- **Privacy by design** - Bring your own API keys or use local models (Ollama, LMStudio)
- **Full control** - Open source, auditable, forkable
- **Chrome compatibility** - Works with all your existing extensions and workflows

## 🚀 Features

### Core Capabilities
- 🤖 **Native AI Agent Runtime** - Execute automation tasks directly in the browser
- 🔐 **Privacy-First Architecture** - Your data never leaves your machine
- 🔌 **MCP Server Support** - Control the browser from external tools via Model Context Protocol
- 🎨 **Chromium Base** - Full compatibility with Chrome extensions and web standards
- 🛡️ **Enhanced Privacy** - Integrated privacy patches from ungoogled-chromium

### AI Integration
- **Multi-Provider Support** - OpenAI, Anthropic, Google, local models (Ollama/LMStudio)
- **Bring Your Own Keys** - Use your own API credentials
- **Local Model Support** - Run completely offline with local LLMs
- **Agent Automation** - Automate web tasks with AI assistance

## 🏗️ Building from Source

### Prerequisites
- Python 3.12 or higher
- Git with submodule support
- Platform-specific build tools (see build documentation)

### Quick Start
```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone --recursive https://github.com/Rekonquest/BrowserOS-in-progress.git
cd BrowserOS-in-progress

# Set up Python environment
cd packages/browseros
python -m venv env
source env/bin/activate  # On Windows: env\Scripts\activate

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Run build system
browseros build --help
```

### Development
```bash
# Initialize submodules (if not cloned with --recursive)
git submodule update --init --recursive

# Install development dependencies
pip install -e ".[dev]"

# Run tests
pytest

# Run demo application
python demo_app.py
```

## 📚 Documentation

### Build System
- See [packages/browseros/BUILD_SYSTEM_MODERNIZATION.md](packages/browseros/BUILD_SYSTEM_MODERNIZATION.md)
- Migration guide: [packages/browseros/MIGRATION_GUIDE.md](packages/browseros/MIGRATION_GUIDE.md)

### Testing
- Test documentation: [packages/browseros/tests/README.md](packages/browseros/tests/README.md)
- Test coverage reports available in `htmlcov/` after running tests

### Windows Build
- Windows-specific information: [WINDOWS_BUILD_ASSESSMENT.md](WINDOWS_BUILD_ASSESSMENT.md)

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! This is an independent open-source project.

### How to Contribute
1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add amazing feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

### Development Guidelines
- Follow Python 3.12+ best practices
- Maintain test coverage
- Update documentation for new features
- Security fixes are always welcome

## 🔒 Security

- **Security-hardened dependencies** - All known CVEs patched (see requirements.txt)
- **Regular audits** - Automated pip-audit scans via GitHub Actions
- **Vulnerability reporting** - See [SECURITY.md](.github/SECURITY.md)

## 📦 Project Structure

```
.
├── packages/
│   └── browseros/          # Main build system and Python code
│       ├── build/          # Build modules and CLI
│       ├── chromium_patches/ # Patches applied to Chromium
│       ├── resources/      # Browser resources and UI
│       ├── tests/          # Test suite
│       └── demo_app.py     # Demo application
├── docs/                   # Documentation
└── .github/                # GitHub workflows and configurations
```

## 📄 License

NexusOS is open source under the [AGPL-3.0 license](LICENSE).

## 🙏 Credits

This project builds upon excellent open-source work:

- **[The Chromium Project](https://www.chromium.org/)** - The foundation that makes this possible
- **[ungoogled-chromium](https://github.com/ungoogled-software/ungoogled-chromium)** - Privacy patches and inspiration
- **All contributors** - Thank you for making this project better

---

## ⚙️ Technical Details

### Python Build System
- **Modern tooling** - Built with Python 3.12+, pytest, ruff, pyright
- **Type safety** - Pydantic-based configuration
- **Comprehensive testing** - Unit, integration, and dynamic tests
- **Artifact management** - Automated build artifact tracking

### Browser Features
- **Chromium 142.0** base (version may vary, check build)
- **Cross-platform** - macOS, Windows, Linux support
- **Extension compatible** - Full Chrome Web Store compatibility
- **Developer-friendly** - Built by developers, for developers

---

<div align="center">

**Built for privacy, designed for productivity**

[Report Bug](https://github.com/Rekonquest/BrowserOS-in-progress/issues) ·
[Request Feature](https://github.com/Rekonquest/BrowserOS-in-progress/issues)

</div>

Commit message:

license: add Commons Clause to AGPL-3.0
This commit updates the license to AGPL-3.0 + Commons Clause, providing
open source code while preventing unauthorized commercial exploitation.

## Changes

### LICENSE File
- Added Commons Clause v1.0 at the top
- Clear explanation of what you CAN and CANNOT do
- Preserved full AGPL-3.0 text below
- Defined Software as "NexusOS"
- Defined Licensor as "Rekonquest"

### README.md
- Updated license badge: "AGPL v3 + Commons Clause"
- Added TL;DR section explaining licensing in plain English
- Added note about commercial licensing contact

## What This Means

**Allowed:**
- Personal use
- Internal business use
- Forking and modifying
- Contributing back to the project

**Restricted:**
- Cannot sell NexusOS as a hosted service (SaaS)
- Cannot sell NexusOS as a product
- Cannot monetize without explicit permission

## Why Commons Clause?

The Commons Clause prevents cloud providers and corporations from taking
the code, hosting it, and profiting without contributing back to the
project. This is a common practice in open source to ensure sustainability
while keeping the code open and accessible.

This follows the precedent set by companies like Redis, CockroachDB, and
other successful open source projects that need to balance openness with
sustainability.

## Impact

- Individuals can still use NexusOS freely
- Companies can use it internally
- Code remains fully open source and auditable
- Prevents exploitation by large corporations
- Creates path for future commercial licensing if needed

## References

- Commons Clause: https://commonsclause.com/
- AGPL-3.0: https://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl-3.0.en.html

README.md, after:

# NexusOS

<div align="center">

[![License: AGPL v3 + Commons Clause](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-AGPL%20v3%20%2B%20Commons%20Clause-blue.svg)](LICENSE)
[![Python 3.12+](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.12+-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
[![Built with Chromium](https://img.shields.io/badge/Built%20with-Chromium-4285F4?logo=googlechrome&logoColor=white)](https://www.chromium.org/)

**A privacy-focused Chromium-based browser with native AI agent integration**

</div>

---

## 🎯 Overview

NexusOS is an open-source Chromium fork designed for developers and power users who want:
- **Local-first AI agents** - Run automation on your machine, not in the cloud
- **Privacy by design** - Bring your own API keys or use local models (Ollama, LMStudio)
- **Full control** - Open source, auditable, forkable
- **Chrome compatibility** - Works with all your existing extensions and workflows

## 🚀 Features

### Core Capabilities
- 🤖 **Native AI Agent Runtime** - Execute automation tasks directly in the browser
- 🔐 **Privacy-First Architecture** - Your data never leaves your machine
- 🔌 **MCP Server Support** - Control the browser from external tools via Model Context Protocol
- 🎨 **Chromium Base** - Full compatibility with Chrome extensions and web standards
- 🛡️ **Enhanced Privacy** - Integrated privacy patches from ungoogled-chromium

### AI Integration
- **Multi-Provider Support** - OpenAI, Anthropic, Google, local models (Ollama/LMStudio)
- **Bring Your Own Keys** - Use your own API credentials
- **Local Model Support** - Run completely offline with local LLMs
- **Agent Automation** - Automate web tasks with AI assistance

## 🏗️ Building from Source

### Prerequisites
- Python 3.12 or higher
- Git with submodule support
- Platform-specific build tools (see build documentation)

### Quick Start
```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone --recursive https://github.com/Rekonquest/BrowserOS-in-progress.git
cd BrowserOS-in-progress

# Set up Python environment
cd packages/browseros
python -m venv env
source env/bin/activate  # On Windows: env\Scripts\activate

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Run build system
browseros build --help
```

### Development
```bash
# Initialize submodules (if not cloned with --recursive)
git submodule update --init --recursive

# Install development dependencies
pip install -e ".[dev]"

# Run tests
pytest

# Run demo application
python demo_app.py
```

## 📚 Documentation

### Build System
- See [packages/browseros/BUILD_SYSTEM_MODERNIZATION.md](packages/browseros/BUILD_SYSTEM_MODERNIZATION.md)
- Migration guide: [packages/browseros/MIGRATION_GUIDE.md](packages/browseros/MIGRATION_GUIDE.md)

### Testing
- Test documentation: [packages/browseros/tests/README.md](packages/browseros/tests/README.md)
- Test coverage reports available in `htmlcov/` after running tests

### Windows Build
- Windows-specific information: [WINDOWS_BUILD_ASSESSMENT.md](WINDOWS_BUILD_ASSESSMENT.md)

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! This is an independent open-source project.

### How to Contribute
1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add amazing feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

### Development Guidelines
- Follow Python 3.12+ best practices
- Maintain test coverage
- Update documentation for new features
- Security fixes are always welcome

## 🔒 Security

- **Security-hardened dependencies** - All known CVEs patched (see requirements.txt)
- **Regular audits** - Automated pip-audit scans via GitHub Actions
- **Vulnerability reporting** - See [SECURITY.md](.github/SECURITY.md)

## 📦 Project Structure

```
.
├── packages/
│   └── browseros/          # Main build system and Python code
│       ├── build/          # Build modules and CLI
│       ├── chromium_patches/ # Patches applied to Chromium
│       ├── resources/      # Browser resources and UI
│       ├── tests/          # Test suite
│       └── demo_app.py     # Demo application
├── docs/                   # Documentation
└── .github/                # GitHub workflows and configurations
```

## 📄 License

NexusOS is licensed under the [AGPL-3.0 license with Commons Clause](LICENSE).

**TL;DR:**
- ✅ Free for personal and internal business use
- ✅ Open source - view and modify the code
- ✅ Fork it and make it your own
- ❌ Cannot sell it as a service or product without permission

For commercial licensing, contact the repository owner.

## 🙏 Credits

This project builds upon excellent open-source work:

- **[The Chromium Project](https://www.chromium.org/)** - The foundation that makes this possible
- **[ungoogled-chromium](https://github.com/ungoogled-software/ungoogled-chromium)** - Privacy patches and inspiration
- **All contributors** - Thank you for making this project better

---

## ⚙️ Technical Details

### Python Build System
- **Modern tooling** - Built with Python 3.12+, pytest, ruff, pyright
- **Type safety** - Pydantic-based configuration
- **Comprehensive testing** - Unit, integration, and dynamic tests
- **Artifact management** - Automated build artifact tracking

### Browser Features
- **Chromium 142.0** base (version may vary, check build)
- **Cross-platform** - macOS, Windows, Linux support
- **Extension compatible** - Full Chrome Web Store compatibility
- **Developer-friendly** - Built by developers, for developers

---

<div align="center">

**Built for privacy, designed for productivity**

[Report Bug](https://github.com/Rekonquest/BrowserOS-in-progress/issues) ·
[Request Feature](https://github.com/Rekonquest/BrowserOS-in-progress/issues)

</div>
